the book of Proverbs the Proverbs of
the book of Proverbs the Proverbs of Solomon the son of David king of Israel
Solomon the son of David king of Israel
Solomon the son of David king of Israel to know wisdom and instruction to
to know wisdom and instruction to
to know wisdom and instruction to perceive the words of understanding to
perceive the words of understanding to
perceive the words of understanding to receive the instruction of wisdom
receive the instruction of wisdom
receive the instruction of wisdom justice judgment and equity to give
justice judgment and equity to give
justice judgment and equity to give prudence to the simple to the young man
prudence to the simple to the young man
prudence to the simple to the young man knowledge and discretion a wise man will
knowledge and discretion a wise man will
knowledge and discretion a wise man will hear an increased learning and a man of
hear an increased learning and a man of
hear an increased learning and a man of understanding will attain wise counsel
understanding will attain wise counsel
understanding will attain wise counsel to understand a proverb and an enigma
to understand a proverb and an enigma
to understand a proverb and an enigma the words of the wise and their riddles
the words of the wise and their riddles
the words of the wise and their riddles the fear of the Lord is the beginning of
the fear of the Lord is the beginning of
the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge but fools despise wisdom and
knowledge but fools despise wisdom and
knowledge but fools despise wisdom and instruction my son hear the instruction
instruction my son hear the instruction
instruction my son hear the instruction of your father and do not forsake the
of your father and do not forsake the
of your father and do not forsake the law of your mother for they will be a
law of your mother for they will be a
law of your mother for they will be a graceful ornament on your head and
graceful ornament on your head and
graceful ornament on your head and chains about your neck
my son if sinners entice you do not
my son if sinners entice you do not consent if they say come with us let us
consent if they say come with us let us
consent if they say come with us let us lie in wait shed blood let us look
lie in wait shed blood let us look
lie in wait shed blood let us look secretly for the innocent without cause
secretly for the innocent without cause
secretly for the innocent without cause let us swallow them alive like she'll
let us swallow them alive like she'll
let us swallow them alive like she'll and whole like those who go down to the
and whole like those who go down to the
and whole like those who go down to the bit we shall find all kinds of precious
bit we shall find all kinds of precious
bit we shall find all kinds of precious possessions we shall fill our houses
possessions we shall fill our houses
possessions we shall fill our houses with spoil casting your lot among us let
with spoil casting your lot among us let
with spoil casting your lot among us let us all have one purse my son do not walk
us all have one purse my son do not walk
us all have one purse my son do not walk in the way with them keep your foot from
in the way with them keep your foot from
in the way with them keep your foot from their path for their feet run to evil
their path for their feet run to evil
their path for their feet run to evil and they make haste to shed blood
and they make haste to shed blood
and they make haste to shed blood surely in vain the net is spread in the
surely in vain the net is spread in the
surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird but they lie in wait
sight of any bird but they lie in wait
sight of any bird but they lie in wait for their own blood they look secretly
for their own blood they look secretly
for their own blood they look secretly for their own lives so are the ways of
for their own lives so are the ways of
for their own lives so are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain it takes
everyone who is greedy for gain it takes
everyone who is greedy for gain it takes away the life of its owners
away the life of its owners
away the life of its owners wisdom calls aloud outside she raises
wisdom calls aloud outside she raises
wisdom calls aloud outside she raises her voice in the open squares she cries
her voice in the open squares she cries
her voice in the open squares she cries out in the chief concourses at the
out in the chief concourses at the
out in the chief concourses at the openings of the gates in the city she
openings of the gates in the city she
openings of the gates in the city she speaks her words how long you simple
speaks her words how long you simple
speaks her words how long you simple ones will you love simplicity force
ones will you love simplicity force
ones will you love simplicity force corners delight in their scorning and
corners delight in their scorning and
corners delight in their scorning and fools hate knowledge turn at my rebuke
fools hate knowledge turn at my rebuke
fools hate knowledge turn at my rebuke surely I will pour out my spirit on you
surely I will pour out my spirit on you
surely I will pour out my spirit on you I will make my words known to you
I will make my words known to you
I will make my words known to you because I have called and you refused I
because I have called and you refused I
because I have called and you refused I stretched out my hand and no one
stretched out my hand and no one
stretched out my hand and no one regarded because you disdained all my
regarded because you disdained all my
regarded because you disdained all my counsel and would have none of my rebuke
counsel and would have none of my rebuke
counsel and would have none of my rebuke I also will laugh at your calamity I
I also will laugh at your calamity I
I also will laugh at your calamity I will mock when your Terror comes when
will mock when your Terror comes when
will mock when your Terror comes when your terror comes like a storm
your terror comes like a storm
your terror comes like a storm and your destruction comes like a
and your destruction comes like a
and your destruction comes like a whirlwind when distress and anguish come
whirlwind when distress and anguish come
whirlwind when distress and anguish come upon you then they will call on me but I
upon you then they will call on me but I
upon you then they will call on me but I will not answer they will seek me
will not answer they will seek me
will not answer they will seek me diligently but they will not find me
diligently but they will not find me
diligently but they will not find me because they hated knowledge and did not
because they hated knowledge and did not
because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord they would
choose the fear of the Lord they would
choose the fear of the Lord they would have none of my counsel and despised my
have none of my counsel and despised my
have none of my counsel and despised my every rebuke therefore they shall eat
every rebuke therefore they shall eat
every rebuke therefore they shall eat the fruit of their own way and be filled
the fruit of their own way and be filled
the fruit of their own way and be filled to the full with their own fancies for
to the full with their own fancies for
to the full with their own fancies for the turning away of this simple will
the turning away of this simple will
the turning away of this simple will slay them and the complacency of fools
slay them and the complacency of fools
slay them and the complacency of fools will destroy them but whoever listens to
will destroy them but whoever listens to
will destroy them but whoever listens to me will dwell safely and will be secure
me will dwell safely and will be secure
me will dwell safely and will be secure without fear of evil